There are endless things to do in Amsterdam in any weather and many of the most rewarding experiences lie beyond the well-trodden tourist paths of the city centre. To lead you through the wealth of wonders, we’ve whittled down the selection to this essential guide.

Many of the museums and sights included are covered by the I amsterdam City Card - a handy visitor pass which gets you free entry to Amsterdam’s most popular attractions, plus free public transport for the duration of your stay.
Often cited as Amsterdam’s most charming neighbourhood, wandering into the Jordaan feels like stepping back in time. Originally a working-class area, the Jordaan’s narrow streets and quaint buildings now make up one of Amsterdam’s most desirable quarters, dotted with independent art galleries, antique shops, courtyard gardens and atmospheric bars and restaurants. Ditch the map and lose yourself in the labyrinth of narrow lanes that sprawl eastwards from Prinsengracht canal known as the 9 Streets, one of Amsterdam's most rewarding shopping experiences. 
There are over 800,000 bicycles in Amsterdam. That’s more bikes than people! Cycling in Amsterdam is a way of life, made easier by the city’s unbeatable network of cycle routes and flat landscape. Amsterdam regularly comes out on top in lists of the world’s most cycle-friendly cities, and there’s no finer way to explore the region’s attractions than by pedal power. Hop on your bike and head to Sloterplas for a dip in the sprawling lake, or cycle over to Ouderkerk aan de Amstel to explore a 12th-century village idyll packed with historic sights. Many of Amsterdam’s best-kept secrets can be discovered from the comfort of your saddle.
Raw herring may sound a little scary to the uninitiated, but every visitor to Amsterdam should give it a go. You’ll spot haringhandels (herring carts) serving up this Dutch specialty all over the city - ask for a ‘broodje haring’ to get the fish served in a small sandwich with pickles and onions. The best time to try raw herring is between May and July when the herring is said to be at its sweetest. Still hungry? See if you can taste your way through all of these traditional Dutch snacks during your visit.
If you’re in town for more than a few days, then plan a day trip to explore the diverse attractions of the surrounding area. Just a short hop from Amsterdam lies a rich landscape of gorgeous countryside, beaches, windmills and historic towns – all easily reachable from the city centre. Just 20 minutes from Amsterdam Central by train, the picturesque city of Haarlem overflows with history and culture, plus a great selection of shops, cafes and restaurants. And if lying on a beach is more your thing, then the beautiful golden stretches at Bloemendaal aan Zee and Zandvoort aan Zee will be happy to oblige with golden sands, dunes and plenty of watersports. Looking for picture-perfect views of windmills, rolling grassland and winding canals? Set your sights on the Zaanse Schans, a pastoral paradise that’s so photogenic it is basically why Instagram was invented.
Located at Westerpark, this sprawling complex of former industrial buildings used to be the city’s municipal gasworks. Now transformed into a colourful cultural hub, Westergas is home to a variety of tempting bars, restaurants, coffee roasters, a microbrewery, art-house cinema, and a whole host of creative businesses. Look out for regular food markets, mini-festivals and events held here, such as the vibrant Sunday market held on the first Sunday of every month. 
Home to the Rijksmuseum, the Van Gogh Museum, the Stedelijk Museum and The Royal Concertgebouw, Museumplein is the cultural beating heart of Amsterdam. Recently renovated to a world-class standard, the leafy and architecturally astounding 19th-century district of Oud-Zuid is an art lover’s utopia. The open square between the buildings pulses with activity all day, with open-air exhibitions, markets and a large paddling pool to dip your toes into on warmer days. In the winter months, the square transforms with a vast outdoor ice rink. Get free entry to the museums with the I amsterdam City Card. 
Created in the 17th century to keep the sea at bay, Amsterdam’s UNESCO protected canal belt is the quintessential postcard-perfect vision of Amsterdam. It is an unbelievably pretty sight, especially after sundown when the bridges are lit up by fairy lights and the whole area takes on a magical feel. Floating along the canals by guided boat tour is a great way to get under the fabric of the city, and you’ll learn lots of fascinating facts along the way – such as why the tilting homes along the canals are known as ‘dancing houses’. There are many different canal cruises on offer, from hop-on-hop-off sightseeing tours to atmospheric candlelit night time cruises with food and wine. Get a free canal cruise with the I amsterdam City Card, or book a canal cruise online with the Canal Cruise Ticket.
There are eight remaining windmills in Amsterdam and the easiest to visit is De Gooyer in the Oostelijke Eilanden (Eastern Islands) neighbourhood. And this isn’t just any windmill – for under the sails of this striking landmark is Brouwerij ‘t IJ, an award-winning artisan microbrewery with a large outdoor drinking terrace and 30-minute guided tasting tours. The brewery produces a range of organic standard and seasonal ales that you'll find in many Amsterdam bars, though nothing tastes quite as good as beer brewed on the premises. Just try to pace yourself because the city is brimming with craft beer bars and microbreweries that will beckon you in for one more frothy fluitje. 
Many visitors to Amsterdam never manage to venture north of Amsterdam Central Station, which is a shame, considering the vibrant food, drink and cultural scene that’s burgeoned across the water. A short (free) ferry trip will take you to several drop off points, including cultural hotspot NDSM, where you can enjoy a host of hip waterside hangouts, frequent festivals and events.
Whether you like listening to live music in a majestic concert hall or an intimate dive bar, Amsterdam has you covered in high style. Housed in a converted church, Paradiso has hosted iconic acts like The Rolling Stones and The Sex Pistols and continues to showcase a superb roster of international talent. An impressive grand dame, Concertgebouw is lauded for its excellent acoustics and lineup of world-class orchestras alongside a wide variety of popular musicians. Over at the Roode Bioscoop—a 100-year-old former cinema— the cosy space allows the audience to really connect with the acoustic artists. De School’s basement nightclub, located in the school's former bike storage, draws a young crowd of music aficionados thanks to its eclectic programme of live music and 24-hour license.
Once a base for a munitions factory, Zaandam's Hembrugterrein is quickly transforming into a haven for Amsterdam’s creative set with several restaurants, museums and artistic venues all set on a plum spot lining the shores of the North Sea Canal. Thursday to Sunday, a direct ferry runs from Central Station to Het HEM, the cultural complex that’s at the heart of this thrumming new neighbourhood. Het HEM has a variety of exhibition spaces where the work of talented local artists is on proud display, along with a living room with a library, a café with a reading table and lakeside terrace, a hi-fi record bar and Restaurant Europa, serving up North Sea delights. 
Toast to Amsterdam’s impressive architecture and stunning skyline with cocktails at one of the city’s stylish rooftop bars. The panorama vista will be as dizzying as the drinks at Juniper & Kin Cocktail Bar (juniperandkin.nl), located on the 21st floor of QO hotel. Looking for an even more immersive experience? Soak in the sprawling vista while you take a dip in one of the alfresco jacuzzis at Canvas, Volkshotel’s terrace bar that’s known for its affordable drinks and priceless view of Amsterdam. Or swing on over to A’DAM Tower for icy sundowners at Panorama Restaurant Madam. You’ll feel like you are on top of the world.
There are many castles, palaces and fortresses in the Amsterdam Area that provide a window into the region’s regal past and will make you feel like the star of your own fairytale. The Royal Palace Amsterdam is King Willem-Alexander’s official reception palace where world leaders and heads of state are hosted and entertained, but it is also open to visitors much of the year. Just 15 kilometres southeast of the city, you’ll find Muiderslot—a 13th-century castle that looks like it could have been plucked from a Disney movie with its five towers, moat and drawbridge. Over in Utrecht, the 14th-century De Haar Castle was updated with impressive turrets and towers in the 19th century courtesy of Pierre Cuypers, the famous Rijksmuseum architect. 