Bangkok is one of the world’s top tourist destinations. The city itself is a true tourist paradise, proved by the growing number of travelers coming each year.

A side of the city itself, Bangkok is also surrounded by many interesting provinces that are worth visiting.

Located at the north of Bangkok are Nonthaburi and Pathum Thani provinces. They have many attractions such as Koh Kret and Lotus museum.

Located at the east of Bangkok is Chachoengsao, a small province with many interesting attractions and activities. Tourists can pay homage to Luang Pho Sothon Buddha Image at Wat Sothon Wararam Worawihan, watch flying foxes, also known as fruit bat, at wat pho, see the golden church at Wat Paknam Jolo, and pray to the giant reclining of Ganesh statue at Wat Saman Rattanaram. There are also old markets for you to visit and shop such as Ban Mai Market, Nakhon Nuang Khet Market, and Khlong Suan Market.

Located at the south of Bangkok are Samut Prakan Province and the Gulf of Thailand. There are many tourist attractions such as Bang Pu, Ancient City, and Samut Prakan Crocodile Farm and Zoo.

Located at the west Bangkok are Samut Sakhon and Nakhon Pathom provinces. Tourist attractions include Don Kai Dee Benjarong Village, Phra Pathom Chedi, Sanam Chandra Palace, Don Wai Floating Market, Sampran Riverside, and Thai Human Imagery Museum.

Things to do in Bangkok

There are great varieties of tourist attractions in Bangkok, mostly Historical attractions and Temples with elaborate architectures and arts. The most famous temples include Wat Phra Kaew, Wat Pho, wat arun, Wat Phu Khao Thong, Wat Ratchanadda, Wat Traimit, Wat Benchamabophit, Wat Bowon, and Wat Sutat.

There are palaces, museums, parks, and a wide array of Shopping centers, from luxury malls to flea markets and street markets such as Chatuchak Weekend Market, Sampeng Market, and Pahurat Textile Market.

Bangkok nightlife is another highlight that has attracted many tourists from all over the world.

Invariably, every Thailand holiday includes a visit to the Kingdom’s capital city, Bangkok, or Krung Thep, “the city of angels,” as it is known to its inhabitants. Many tourists who travel to Bangkok are immediately overwhelmed by the sheer size of the city and the vast number of attractions Bangkok has to offer. Indeed, there is a wide variety of Bangkok sightseeing opportunities spanning more than two centuries of rapid development following the city’s founding in 1782 by King Rama I, 
the first king of the present Chakri dynasty. Since that auspicious date, Bangkok has swelled to a cosmopolitan, 21st century city of more than ten million inhabitants. While the immensity of the city and its bustling streets can be intimidating at first, those who spend some time in Bangkok are quickly enamored by the myriad of attractions Bangkok contains, from exotic temples, which underscore Thailand’s strong Buddhist History, to modern shopping malls, which make shopping an integral part of any Bangkok holiday. Situated in the heart of Bangkok’s Rattanakosin Island, the gleaming spires of the Grand Palace are conveniently located nearby Bangkok’s most spectacular temples, including the Temple of the Emerald Buddha (Wat Phra Kaeo), the Temple of Dawn (Wat Arun), and Wat Pho, which features an enormous reclining Buddha and was home of the first Thai massage school in the kingdom. These iconic destinations are top attractions to all visitors who travel to Bangkok looking to appreciate Thailand’s unique cultural traditions. In fact, there are more than 400 functioning Buddhist temples throughout the city and it’s not uncommon when you travel in 
Bangkok to spot saffron robed monks collecting morning alms or traveling throughout the city, including along the Chao Phraya River or the “River of Kings,” which passes alongside the Temple of the Dawn. The winding Chao Phraya is connected by numerous canals from which Bangkok has earned its nickname the “Venice of the East.” When you travel around Bangkok, a cruise on the Chao Phraya River, a visit to a floating market, or an exploration of the city’s “back alley” canals (khlongs) are themselves unique Bangkok attractions. Other historical and cultural Bangkok sightseeing ‘must sees’ include the National Museum, Vimanmek 
Bangkok shopping malls, when you travel to Bangkok you are guaranteed a fascinating experience of both old-world charm and modern convenience and luxury.
Siam Ocean World is on the 1st and 2nd floors of the Siam Paragon Mall. It is the largest aquarium in Southeast Asia exhibiting more than 30,000 species worldwide.
Bangkok, the capital of Thailand, is one of the world's top tourist destination cities.
If you only visit one major historical tourist attraction in Bangkok, this should be the one. The royal compound lives up to its name, with spectacular structures that would put the most decadent modern monarchs to shame. It's also the home of Wat Phra Kaeo, which houses the Jade (or Emerald) Buddha.

Built in 1782, the grand palace was the royal residence for generations and is still used for important ceremonies and accommodating heads of state. Dress modestly when visiting the Grand Palace, which basically means covering your arms and legs and avoiding any sloppy attire.

To avoid any hassle and to make the most of your visit, take the Grand Palace and Wat Phra Kaew Tour. This is a half-day sightseeing tour, either morning or afternoon, with pickup from your hotel and a local guide to put what you are seeing in context. Without a guide, it's easy to miss important features or not fully understand the relevance of what you are seeing, and the hotel pickup makes the whole experience that much simpler.
Located immediately south of the Grand Palace precinct, Wat Pho makes an excellent addition to your palace tour, provided your feet are up for more walking.

The temple was built by King Rama I and is the oldest in Bangkok. It has long been considered a place of healing, and was famous centuries ago for its pharmacy and as Thailand's first "university"—both established by King Rama III. You can get a Thai or foot massage at the traditional medical school on the premises, but the prices are significantly higher than what you will find at massage parlors elsewhere in the city.

Today Wat Pho is best known for the Temple of the Reclining Buddha, where you'll find a statue so big (45 meters long and 15 meters high), it cannot be viewed in its entirety but only appreciated in sections. 
The soles of the feet, inlaid with a myriad of precious stones, are particularly beautiful. Look also for the long earlobes signifying noble birth, and the lotus-bud configuration of the hand to symbolize purity and beauty.