Budapest, the capital of Hungary and considered by many to be the "Paris of the East," is one of the most culturally important metropolises in Eastern Europe, and is home to numerous UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Although humans have lived here since the Stone Age, this beautiful city only formally came into being in 1872 with the amalgamation of three previously independent towns-Old Buda (Óbuda), Buda, and Pest-to become the administrative, commercial, and industrial center of Hungary.
Straddling the River Danube, Budapest is famous for its thermal springs, some of which have been used for therapeutic purposes since prehistory. In fact, Budapest has so many things to do that you'll want to spend at least a few days exploring this dynamic city. Popular attractions range from impressive architecture and poignant reminders of 20th-century history to its vibrant cultural and entertainment scene, with everything from street buskers to classical concerts in beautiful churches.
Budapest is also a shopper's paradise, from the traditional wares and foodstuffs available at the Central Market Hall to Vaci Street, noted for its mix of luxury boutique stores and big brand names. Whatever your sightseeing preferences, get the most out of your Hungary travel itinerary with our guide to the top tourist attractions in Budapest.
Towering over the Danube, Budapest's Castle Hill (Várhegy) contains many of the city's most important medieval monuments and museums. Topping the list of these impressive structures is the 18th-century Buda Castle (Budavári Palota), a massive 200-room palace that replaced a 13th-century castle built to protect the stronghold from Mongol and Tartar attacks.

Although badly damaged in World War II, much of the exterior has been restored, along with sections of the interior, which now houses a number of important museums. These include the Hungarian National Gallery in the main wing, while in the south wing, the Budapest History Museum occupies four floors.
In front of the castle, overlooking the Danube, stands a bronze equestrian statue of Prince Eugene of Savoy, a hero of Turkish attacks on the city. Castle Hill is worth exploring for its medieval lanes and it Romanesque, Gothic, and Baroque architecture. This entire historic complex is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Like much of the city, Buda Castle is spectacularly illuminated at night, and the castle courtyards remain open 24 hours a day. You can reach the castle on the restored historic Castle Funicular Railway, which departs from the Buda end of the Chain Bridge.


A highlight of a walk around Budapest's lovely pedestrian-friendly cobbled streets is the area around the country's architecturally pleasing Parliament building (Országház), along with its neighbors, the Museum of Ethnography and the Ministry of Agriculture.

The world's third largest parliament building, this Neo-Gothic building was inaugurated in 1886 to mark the country's 1,000th anniversary. (Hungary was then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.)

This impressive structure boasts 691 rooms, as well as an impressive 19 kilometers of corridors and stairs. Guided tours last approximately 45 minutes and are available whenever the government is not sitting, and include many of the building's highlights, such as the main entrance hall, various lobbies, and the Hungarian Crown Jewels.
Budapest's St. Stephen's Basilica (Szent István-bazilika) is a popular attraction for its impressive architecture, the beauty of its interior, and the panoramic views from its dome. The cathedral is dedicated to St. Stephen, Hungary's holy king and the founder of the Hungarian state, and construction began in 1851, but after several construction setbacks-including the collapse of its unfinished dome-it was not dedicated until 1905.

The roof, towers, and external walls were badly damaged in World War II, and the church's precious mosaics fell from the walls. However, these were successfully restored to their original place and are the highlight of the richly decorated interior. The most impressive of these, the five-part Venetian mosaic is in the sanctuary and represents the allegories of the mass.

The cathedral's most precious holy relic, the mummified right hand of the church's patron saint, the first king of Hungary, is displayed under glass in the chapel to the left of the high altar.

One of the best things to do here, if time permits, is to take one of the two elevators that carry visitors up to the cupola for sweeping 360-degree views over the city and the Danube (alternatively, you can climb the 364 steps). Guided tours of the basilica are available on weekdays. Also, be sure to check the cathedral's website for details of one of its frequent organ and classical music concerts.
Overlooking the Danube, on the spot where the city's fishermen's guild built their defence walls in the Middle Ages, stands the impressive Fisherman's Bastion (Halászbástya). This exquisite collection of Neo-Romanesque towers, courtyards, colonnades, and walls was built between 1895 and 1902, and is one of the most popular points in the city for tourists, largely for its spectacular views over the city and the Danube.

While here, be sure to look for the bronze equestrian statue of St. Stephen, the first King of Hungary, in the south courtyard. The reliefs on the sides of the base depict scenes from Stephen's life, and make for an incredible selfie backdrop. A variety of English language tour options are available.
The Danube (or "Duna" in Hungarian) flows through Budapest from north to south, and in some places within city boundaries is as much as 640 meters wide. One of the top free things to do in Budapest is strolling along the Danube Promenade (Dunakorzó), a pleasant century-old riverside walk that extends between the Elisabeth and Széchenyi Chain Bridges.

Although there are many places from which to enjoy views of the majestic river as you stroll its banks (either the Buda or Pest sides, they're both good), the Danube Promenade is definitely one of the best vantage points to take in views of the city's stunning architecture.

It's also on the banks of the Danube (the northeast side, close to the Hungarian Parliament buildings) that you'll find the chilling Shoes on the Danube Bank memorial, a series of 60 pairs of steel sculpted shoes commemorating Jews shot here by the Nazis. It's a poignant and moving reminder of the Nazi atrocities suffered by Hungary in World War II.

Another great way to view the city is via a boat cruise along the Danube. Numerous tourist excursions depart regularly from the landing stages at Vigadó tér on the Pest bank and Bem József tér on the Buda bank, and are highly recommended. It's also fun watching these sturdy vessels from the historic Freedom Bridge as they whip down river only to have to struggle back against the current.
Matthias Church, also known as The Church of Our Lady (Nagyboldogasszony-templom), is a prominent landmark on Castle Hill. It was completed in 1269, and its magnificent south doorway with its relief depicting the Death of Mary was added in the 1300s.

During the Turkish occupation of 1541-1699, the church was used as a mosque, and was later renovated in the Baroque style. It has been the scene of several historic events, including the coronation of King Charles I of Hungary in 1309 and the coronation of Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria and his consort Elisabeth (Sissy) as rulers of Hungary. It was for this event that Franz Liszt composed his coronation mass.

The free organ concerts held here on Sunday evenings are well worth attending. Also worth checking out, the Ecclesiastical Art Museum is located on the church's medieval crypt and features a collection of sacred relics, stone carvings, and replicas of the Hungarian crown jewels.
Budapest has something for everyone – from dramatic history and flamboyant architecture to healing thermal waters and a nightlife that is unrivalled in Eastern and Central Europe.
Whether you’re arriving in Budapest after a long plane ride or a journey by train, you’ll be glad to soak away travel-related aches and pains in the healing waters of the city’s famed public baths. One of the largest natural hot-spring spa baths in Europe, the Széchenyi Thermal Baths is not a tourist attraction (expect to be at least somewhat confused by the signs in Hungarian, not to mentionthe staggering number of options at the ticket counter), but a functional wellness centre and social space that’s regularly used by locals and visitors alike. Bring flip-flops, a swimsuit and a towel, if you can: towel rental is available, but bringing your own is easier. Check out the website for more information on prices and packages, and book online ahead of time if you’re hoping to try an additional service, like a massage. Note that Széchenyi isn’t your only option in town. There are more than a dozen other public baths available in the city.
