The island of Oahu has a great mix of activities, particularly in Honolulu. Take your kids surfing and snorkeling, hike around Manoa Falls or soak up local history at the Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum and Iolani Palace. And then there's the island's plethora of World War II attractions, including the Battleship Missouri Memorial, the USS Bowfin Submarine Museum & Park and the Pearl Harbor National Memorial. But no trip to Oahu would be complete without visiting some of the island's world-renowned beaches; a few popular options include the water sports-focused Kailua Beach Park, the family-friendly Lanikai Beach and the resort-strewn Waikiki Beach. For an overview of the entire island, hop on a helicopter for a guided tour of its valleys, mountains and historical sites.
Nineteenth-century Hawaiian royalty used to come to the Honolulu neighborhood of Waikiki to relax and surf, just as scores of tourists do today. That's because this area's famous beach (which is a string of several beaches dotting the island's southwest coastline) is the go-to spot for its soft, honey-colored sand and the high waves that lap the shores during the winter months. But you don't have to be a surfer to appreciate Waikiki Beach; just lie back on a beach towel, relax and gaze up at the majestic Diamond Head State Monument in the distance.

When you need a break from the beach itself, there are scores of shops and restaurants lining the adjacent Kalakaua Avenue. The street is home to some of the world's most exclusive (read: expensive) designer boutiques, including Cartier, Coach, Hermès and Louis Vuitton. Many of the best Oahu hotels also overlook Waikiki Beach.
Located northwest of downtown Honolulu in the Central Oahu region of the island, the Pearl Harbor National Memorial is home to the USS Arizona Memorial, which is the final resting place of 1,177 sailors killed during the Pearl Harbor attack. The sunken battleship is still visible from the memorial floating above it.

You can expect a long wait time and plenty of people at this attraction, but visitors almost unanimously agree that the experience is more than worth it. For fewer headaches when visiting, travelers recommend arriving before 7 a.m. if you plan on getting a walk-up ticket
Travel about 15 miles northeast of downtown Honolulu to the Windward Coast and you'll discover two of the island's most popular beaches – Kailua Beach Park and Lanikai Beach. Of the two, Lanikai is more tranquil, offering relatively calm waters and a mile of white sands. This family-friendly beach is also within view of the Mokulua Islands, a haven for kayaking and surfing.

Beachgoers praise Lanikai Beach's "gorgeous" setting, adding that its location in a mostly residential part of Kailua makes it less crowded and more relaxing than Waikiki Beach. But the beach's Kailua address is also its biggest drawback: Several visitors warn that parking in the area is limited.
the aquarium hosts an impressive 3,500 species of Hawaiian marine life and fish, including monk seals, octopus, squid, reef sharks, jellyfish, crabs, sea horses, and hundreds of colorful reef fish.The Waikiki Aquarium is located across from Kapiolani Park next door to the Waikiki Natatorium War Memorial and San Souci Beach.  It’s a fun activity for the whole family!
The Honolulu Zoo is very popular amongst the Honolulu attractions!  You may forget for a moment that you are actually in Hawaii once you step into the zoo and into the African Savannah, or the Reptile Garden, and a bird sanctuary.  Don’t forget to take the kids to the Keiki (kid) section of the zoo.
Take a moment to pay respect and honor to the soldiers who fought and perished during the battle that took place at Pearl Harbor – a moment  in history that sent shock waves around the world. Sign up for a small group tour and avoid long lines.The Arizona Memorial and the Missouri Battleship monuments have a powerful presence that will leave you in awe and full of emotion.
King Kalakaua and his sister, Queen Lili'uokalani, who later became his successor, enjoyed this opulent and grand  palace as their official residence.  Ironically, and shortly after it was built, Hawaii's monarchy was ended and Queen Lili'uokalani was imprisoned in her very own Iolani Palace.

The Iolani Palace was lovingly and meticulously restored to its former glory so you can enjoy a piece of Hawaii's royal heritage!I recommend taking a guided docent tour, which you can schedule ahead of your visit.  The tour is inexpensive and fascinating to listen to, as you walk the Koa wood floors and explore the grand halls and rooms that are full of Hawaiian history.
The Chinatown Honolulu area itself has become one of the best Oahu attractions, with the surge of new Hawaiian art galleries, boutique shops, dynamic restaurant, bars and clubs.This is an evolving area where new hip life is starting to occupy the century old buildings.

ake a stroll along Waikiki Beach and check out the old surf racks with hundreds of vintage surfboards.Perhaps you might be inspired to take surf lessons and experience some of the most gentle and consistent beginner's waves in Oahu.Don't forget to check out some of the bigger main attractions like the Honolulu Zoo and the Waikiki Aquarium with the family.
Diamond Head Trail 
is one of the most rewarding Oahu hikes, offering amazing 360-degree views when you reach the top.  Hiking Diamond Head might first appear to be a challenging all day climb, but this Oahu hiking trail can look deceiving, as it really only takes about 40 to 60 minutes to reach the 760-foot summit.  The hike itself is 1.5 miles round trip.  There are some steep sections including narrow stairs, and the number of hikers ahead of you might slow you down, but just imagine the panoramic views you will be rewarded with once you reach the top of this Diamond Head hike.  Keep reading to see everything you need to know before you go!
The Diamond Head trail itself was originally built in 1908 by the US Army, and used for many decades as part of the Fort Rugur military base.  Artillery cannons, cement bunkers and an observation deck were built on the summit of the Diamond Head Crater.
he number one reason visitors come to Hawaii is to spend time on our tropical beaches.  This Oahu Beach gets more than its share of beach goers with beautiful aqua blue waters, and easy access from just about any hotels in the area.
Waikiki is one of the world’s most traveled and sought out vacation destination in the world.  With close to 5 million visitors per year, this city has become a Honolulu attraction itself!  Whether you’re here to sink your toes somewhere on the 2 mile stretch of this Oahu beach, explore some of the surrounding Honolulu attractions, discover the best shopping areas, or get ready for the best island nightlife, we’ll lead you to better main attractions, and point out the best things this incredible city has to offer!
Most associate it with a trip to the North Shore, and dropping into famous Matsumoto’s Shave Ice for a cool treat on a hot day.  Today the competition is fierce, and Hawaiian shave ice establishments are stepping up their game with new flavors, toppings, and refining the ice itself.  Check out some of the best Hawaiian Shave Ice establishments on the island
With mai tais in hand, live entertainment on stage, and a grand buffet of food lined up, it’s easy to see why everyone gets excited for these ongoing parties that take place in multiple locations each night!  The Hawaiian Luau is a grand production in the making with so many components.  You can feel the magic begin as the tiki torches are lit and the conch shells are blown