From the modern London Eye to the historic Tower of London, the top 10 tourist attractions in London are a must-see on any London sightseeing trip. Even better, many London landmarks are free to visit, while others are available with discounted entry or special offers when using a London Pass. Use the London attractions map to find them all.
 
There are also plenty of kid-friendly places to visit in London. Get up close and personal with underwater creatures at SEALIFE London Aquarium or explore the Science Museum, London's interactive hub of science and technology. Both are perfect for fun family days out in London.
 
You could also soak up some culture at London museums, visit the Queen at Buckingham Palace, or take the perfect picture with Big Ben, just some of the many iconic places to go in London.
Visit the official London residence of the Queen during the Buckingham Palace summer opening. Explore the extravagant State Rooms and don't miss this year's special exhibition, Royal Animals, which focuses on the royal family's interest in 
Take a tour with one of the Yeoman Warders around the Tower of London, one of the world's most famous buildings. Discover its 900-year history as a royal palace, prison and place of execution, arsenal, jewel house and zoo! Gaze up at the White Tower, tiptoe through a medieval king's bedchamber and marvel at the Crown Jewel
Buckingham Palace was built in 1837 and has been the London residence of the Royal Family since Queen Victoria's accession. If you're wondering whether the Queen is in, look at the flagpole atop the building: if the royal standard is flying day and night, she's at home. On special state occasions, she and members of the Royal Family may even emerge on the central balcony.

When she's away at her summer palace in Scotland, visitors can purchase tickets for tours of the State Rooms, the Queen's Gallery, and the Royal Mews. One of the best ways to tour the palace, see the Changing of the Guard, and 
From prison to palace, treasure vault to private zoo, the magnificent Tower of London has fulfilled many different roles down the centuries. One of Britain's most iconic structures, this spectacular World Heritage Site offers hours of fascination for visitors curious about the country's rich history - after all, so much of it happened here. Inside the massive White Tower, built in 1078 by William the Conqueror, is the 17th-century Line of Kings with its remarkable displays of royal armaments and armor. Other highlights include the famous Crown Jewels exhibition, the Beefeaters, the Royal Mint, and gruesome exhibits about the executions that took place on the grounds. The adjacent Tower Bridge, its two huge towers rising 200 feet above the River Thames, is one of London's best-known landmarks.

For the best use of your time, especially during the busy summer season Displaying one of the world's finest collections of antiquities, the British Museum contains more than 13 million artifacts from the ancient world. With priceless objects from Assyria, Babylonia, China, Europe, and elsewhere, it's hard to know where to begin. But most tourists head first for the museum's most famous exhibits: the controversial Elgin Marbles from the Parthenon, the Rosetta Stone, the colossal bust of Ramesses II, the Egyptian mummies, and the spectacular hoard of 4th-century Roman silver known as the Mildenhall Treasure.


Nothing says "London" more emphatically than the 318-foot tower housing the giant clock and its resounding bell known as Big Ben. It's as iconic a landmark as Tower Bridge. The tolling of Big Ben is known throughout the world as the time signal of BBC radio. Below it, stretching along the Thames, are the Houses of Parliament, seat of Britain's government for many centuries and once the site of the royal Westminster Palace occupied by William the Conqueror. Tours of the parliament buildings offer a unique chance to see real-time debates and lively political discussions. From Parliament Square, Whitehall is lined by so many government buildings that its name has become synonymous with the British government
Topping our list of must-see London attractions is the iconic Tower Bridge. Completed in 1894, Tower Bridge is one of the world’s most famous bascule (a French term for “see-saw”) bridges: It opens in the middle to allow tall boats on the Thames to pass through. Catch a glimpse of the bridge opening (lift times are posted on the Tower Bridge website), and walk across its high-level glass floor walkways 42 metres above the Thames
Scraping the sky at 306 metres, western Europe’s tallest building boasts a high-end hotel, restaurants and bars and London’s highest viewing platform—an unobstructed 360-degree view stretching as far as 64 kilometres. Here are 10 more architectural wonders from around the world.
Fans of Sherlock Holmes have already deduced why London’s so special. Make the pilgrimage to the Sherlock Holmes Museum at 221b Baker Street (yes, it really exists!), or follow the path of the BBC’s latest version of the legendary detective with stops at St. Bart’s Hospital, Speedy’s Restaurant on North Gower Street, or Leinster Gardens
More than 10,000 actors have tread the boards at the National Theatre including Benedict Cumberbatch, Judi Dench, Laurence Olivier and Maggie Smith. (If you’re a fan of Smith, you’ll love this collection of Downton Abbey quotes.) See a play, indulge in one of the theatre’s delicious restaurants, or treat yourself to a backstage tour.
The famous Knightsbridge store with the iconic green awnings has been offering luxury goods to its customers for over 160 years. Across seven floors and 330 departments, shoppers will find only the best fashions, accessories and homewares. Shopped out? Toast your purchases with some bubbly at the Champagne Bar, or a box of rainbow-hued Ladurée 
The British Museum is both an architectural beauty and a trove of some of the world's most noted antiquities. In fact, many travelers it's the best museum in all of London. What's more, it's free to visit. From the Rosetta Stone to the Elgin Marbles to the Lindow Man, the British Museum is a history buff's dream containing artifacts in the millions. The immense collection can make an initial museum visit seem overwhelming: Pick the exhibits that
Locals and tourists alike tend to adore Portobello Road Market. Located in the posh Notting Hill neighborhood (made famous by the Hugh Grant and Julia Roberts movie of the same name), the market stretches down the long Portobello Road, considered to be the high street (or main street) of Notting Hill. The market is filled with merchants of all kinds (more than 1,000 to be exact) selling a variety of common flea market items including antiques
Sitting in Trafalgar Square, London's National Gallery features a labyrinth interior so large that it requires a color-coded map to navigate. The museum features paintings in the Western European tradition from the 13th to 19th centuries, including Italian Renaissance masterpieces and French Impressionist works. Among its 2,300 in-house pieces, visitors will find famed paintings, such as Botticelli's "Venus and Mars" and Van Gogh's "Sunflowers.
The portal to London's buzzy West End, Piccadilly Circus lives up to its name. Regularly compared to New York's Times Square, Piccadilly Circus is the meeting place of five busy roads and is the center of London's hustle and bustle. Whether it's businessmen and women on their way to work in the morning, shoppers en route to the department store-clad Oxford Street (just a few streets north) or lively club and bar hoppers passing through at
A favourite royal residence of Henry VIII, Hampton Court Palace takes you back in time to the tumultuous days of the Tudors and Stuarts. Marvel at the Great Hall, be awestruck by the Chapel Royal, and get lost in the famous garden maze. Check out more impressive mazes from around the world.
Span space and time! At the Greenwich Royal Observatory, you can stand on the world’s prime meridian, with one foot in the Earth’s eastern hemisphere, and the other in the western hemisphere. Discover Greenwich’s Planetarium and Astronomy Centre, and stroll through beautiful Greenwich Park. The Cutty Sark and National Maritime Museum are also nearby.
Looking for retail therapy? Head to Covent Garden! Stroll across the piazza’s cobbles and shop to your heart’s content at the hottest chain stores, hip independent shops, and the famous covered market (shown here). Foodies will swoon over the dining options, while kids of all ages will fall under the spell of eclectic street performers and magicians.
Established in 1536 by Henry VIII, Hyde Park is one of London’s largest green spaces, with more than 4,000 trees, vibrant flower gardens and a large meadow which plays host to many public concerts and celebrations. Check out the Princess Diana Memorial Fountain, enjoy a bite in the royal park’s lakeside restaurants, or rent a row boat for a leisurely paddle on the Serpentine.