For many visitors, Marrakesh's labyrinthine medina (old city) district is the town's star attraction. The narrow alleyways are a kaleidoscope of colors, scents, and sounds and are bound to be the sightseeing highlight of your trip.

As well as simply wandering (and getting lost) amid the bustling maze, there are myriad shopping opportunities, where you can put your haggling hat on and barter to your heart's content. Shoppers shouldn't miss the Babouche (shoe) Souk, Chouari (carpenter's) Souk, El-Attarine (perfume and spice) Souk, and the Cherratine (leather) Souk.

Just west of the main souk area, at the end of Rue Bab Debbagh, you'll find Marrakesh's tanneries, where animal skins are still dyed the old-fashioned way.
This large square at the entry to the medina is the center of Marrakesh life. The Djemaa El Fna (assembly place of the nobodies) is a vibrant hub of bric-a-brac stalls, musicians, storytellers, fortune-tellers, and snake charmers that never seems to rest. Here, the entire spectrum of Moroccan life enfolds before you. If being down among the thrum becomes too much, it's also easy to escape to one of the many surrounding rooftop cafés and restaurants, where you can survey the crazy scene from above.
The Koutoubia Mosque is Marrakesh's most famous landmark with its striking, 70-meter-tall minaret visible for miles in every direction. Local Marrakesh legend tells that when first built, the muezzin (man who calls the faithful to pray) for this mosque had to be blind, as the minaret was so tall, it overlooked the ruler's harem. The mosque was built in 1162 and is one of the great achievements of Almohad architecture. Non-Muslims are not allowed into the mosque itself.
Built in 1565 by the Saadians, the Medersa (madrassa - Islamic school of learning) of Ben Youssef is the largest theological college in Morocco. The warrens of rooms (with student cells that once were home to 900 pupils) are clustered around small internal courtyards in typical Islamic architecture style, but the main internal courtyard is the real highlight here. The fine zellige tiling, stalactite ceilings, cedar-wood detailing, and Kufic inscriptions used as decoration across the courtyard's interior make this medersa one of Morocco's most beautiful buildings and a star medina attraction.
This 16th-century burial ground is home to 66 members of the Saadian dynasty, which ruled over Marrakesh between 1524 and 1668. The tombs here include that of the ruler Al-Mansour, his successors, and their closest family members. It's a rambling, atmospheric place, with the mausoleums set amid a rather overgrown garden.

In particular, the main mausoleum (where Moulay Yazid is buried) has a fine surviving mihrab (prayer niche). The Saadian Tombs were walled up by their Alawite successors and were only rediscovered in the early 20th century.
This magnificent peacock of a palace was built in the late 19th century as the residence of the Grand Vizier Bou Ahmed, who served Sultan Moulay al-Hassan I. The interior decoration is a dazzling display of zellige tiles, painted ceilings, and ornate wrought-iron features showcasing the opulent lives of those high up in the sultan's favor at that time. The massive marble grand courtyard and opulent salons of the haram area are the two main attractions, while the lush internal courtyard of the grand riad, with its banana-leaf plants and citrus trees, is a tranquil respite from the city.
he Medina is the centre of the city, filled with winding alleyways, bustling squares and souks. Touring the Medina will take you into picturesque palaces, busy markets and mesmerising mosques as you learn about the history and culture of this unique, ancient and UNESCO World Heritage-listed neighbourhood.
s the main square inside Marrakech’s Medina, Jemaa el-Fnaa is the heart and soul of the city. Wandering through on scorching hot afternoons, you’ll encounter singers, storytellers and snake charmers. At night, the square comes alive with street-food vendors and merchants hawking everything from babouche slippers to spices.
the largest mosque in Marrakech – dates back to the 12th century and is known for its minaret tower that rises high above the rest of the city at 77 metres (253 feet). Located in the southwest portion of the Medina, the mosque features intricate tiling, stunning ceramics and lush gardens that are all worth exploring.
As the final resting place of the founder of the Saadian dynasty, the Saadian Tombs date back to the 16th century. The site is close to the Kasbah Mosque and became the burial place of royals. Today, it features 66 tombs between two mausoleums and another hundred or so graves in the surrounding gardens.
If you’re looking for a unique side of Marrakech history, check out Mellah, otherwise known as the Jewish quarter of the Medina. While this predominantly Muslim city is brimming with mosques, there are still fascinating remnants of its former Jewish population, including a Jewish cemetery and a synagogue that date back to the 15th century.

One of the more unique attractions in Marrakech, André Heller’s ANIMA is a stunning garden that features mother nature’s natural beauty alongside works of art by Rodin, Picasso and Keith Haring. Shaded paths allow visitors to stroll at leisure as vistas of the Atlas Mountains tower in the distance. The garden is a 45-minute drive outside the city, but it’s worth sitting back, relaxing and enjoying the views along the way.
There’s nothing quite like a hammam experience to awaken your body, mind and spirit. This particular activity is similar to a Turkish bath where you’ll be massaged with argan oil and eucalyptus and then scrubbed raw with a horsehair glove. The journey is one of a kind, and your skin will be glowing for weeks afterwards.
The Medina has alleys upon alleys of souks, so it’s worth hiring a guide to navigate them all. This tour takes you through the spice souk, Jemaa el-Fnaa and then to the markets with hand-stitched clothing and local artisans plying their trades. You’ll meet tile- and slipper-makers, ceramicists and rug weavers who will give you an idea of the breadth of commerce taking place inside this complex marketplace
There’s no waiting in line on this spectacular tour. Two of the most impressive palaces in Marrakech, Bahia and Badii, are both included on this excursion where you’ll get to take in unique architectural features while learning about the history of Moroccan royalty.
The gardens of Marrakech are known the world over for their impeccably manicured styles and unmatched greenery. This unique tour takes you to two of the city’s most exquisite gardens – Majorelle (which features a Cubist-designed villa) and Menara (featuring insane views of the Atlas Mountains). The icing on the cake comes in the form of a horse-drawn carriage ride through the Agdal Gardens, which border the luxurious Hivernage and La Mamounia hotels.
One of the best ways to beat the heat of Marrakech is to head to Oasiria, the most exciting water park in Northern Africa. Oasiria features the largest wave pool on the continent, epic water slides, a lazy river and so much more. It’s the perfect family getaway after dragging the little ones around the souks
Within walking distance of must-see sights like Jemaa El Fna, the Badi Palace and the Saadian Tombs sits the intricate Bahia Palace. This 19th-century palace exemplifies the lavish lifestyle of the Moroccan elite. Before it was accessible to the public, this property housed various Moroccan royals. Although the palace was ransacked in the early 1900s, members of the royal family continue to occasionally stay here. Meanwhile, visitors can check out the public areas of the property, which feature rounded entryways that lead to colorful mosaics and intricate latticework, as well as cool, shady walkways that guide you to vast, sunny courtyards and gardens.
It's hard to miss Jemaa El Fna. Sitting at the center of the medina, this open-air square stands as the city's main gathering spot. By day, Jemaa El Fna hosts dozens of entertainers, from snake charmers to fortune tellers to herbalists. By night, the area fills with the aromas of piping hot couscous, grilled meats and simmering vegetables from the food stalls. From the square, narrow alleyways lead intrepid shoppers through a maze of souks (markets), composed of spice vendors and carpet sellers who will stop at nothing to get you to buy something. Here's a tip: Never settle for the original price. Half the fun of shopping around Jemaa El Fna is practicing your bargaining skills. Most hawkers will negotiate with you, but walk away if you encounter a stubborn seller.
Recent visitors praised Jemaa El Fna's bustling marketplace but suggested visiting at night when there's more to see. Several also stressed the importance of saying "no" when you do not want an item or service and suggested keeping a close eye on your belongings since pickpockets are regularly spotted here.