And Moscow has the Moskva. It may not get the same attention, but it's nonetheless a good place for a walk or boat tour.
A riverside stroll between the Cathedral of Christ the Savior and Gorky Park (with one bridge crossing) would take about 90 minutes, depending on your walking speed and how much you stop to gawk. And if you're a fan of religious buildings, you can begin or end your walk with a tour of the cathedral, which was destroyed on Josef Stalin's orders in the 1930s but rebuilt in the 1990s.
A river cruise in any major city with a waterway lets you get a whole new take on it, and Moscow is no exception. You can book cruises of varying times and routes from different companies. Night cruises get special raves from tourists online. Just remember Moscow has long winters, and the river can freeze over for months.
Visiting the various sights in historic Red Square can really hit you in the wallet, but here's an attraction that's still free: the mausoleum holding the embalmed body of communist revolutionary Vladimir Lenin.
The mausoleum once had an almost religious pull for citizens of the officially atheistic Soviet Union, with people waiting long hours just to get a glimpse of Lenin and perhaps leave a flower.
When you close your eyes and think of Moscow, you might picture St. Basil's Cathedral in your mind. You've probably seen its richly colored, onion-shaped domes on television during fireworks shows or as a backdrop for Western TV correspondents.
Czar Ivan the Terrible ordered its construction to mark a huge military victory over Mongols. It was finished in 1560 and is also known as Pokrovsky Cathedral.
These days, it's a museum and one of the major attractions of Red Square. A religious service is held once a year in October, on the Day of Intercession in Eastern Orthodoxy
Even people who don't follow ballet and opera have usually heard of the renowned Bolshoi Theatre.
In 2011, Russia's beloved Bolshoi reopened after a long renovation. Visitors are now enjoying improved acoustics, new seating and touched-up mosaics that restored the theater to its imperial luster after decades of communist neglect.
The opera and ballet productions are more popular than ever, but it's not just the same old "Swan Lake." Experimental stagings of classics such as "Ruslan and Lyudmila" were sending traditionalists into a tizzy -- and winning the theater new cultural relevance.
The theater runs an online booking system. Reserve early, as tickets can sell out months in advance. In 2018, the Bolshoi is closed from July 29 to September 12 (though nothing can stop you from marveling at its exterior).
Its lavish toilets were shut down for being a bourgeois luxury in 1918. One of them -- branded Historic Toilet -- has now been restored to its pre-revolutionary grandeur and is open to anyone willing to spend just a little money.
Its communist era hasn't been forgotten; the Soviet-themed cafe Stolovaya No 57 serves up borscht, pies and pickles along with nostalgia. An ice rink opens each winter.
If you want to see great works from all over Europe, head to the excellent Pushkin Museum. But if you want to do a deeper dive into Russian art, then the Tretyakov Gallery is the place to go.
The main historical gallery holds more than 1,300 works of Russian art that span from the 11th century to the early 20th century. This is where you can see masterpieces such as "The Appearance of Christ to the People" by Alexander Ivanov and "Trinity" by Andrei Rublev.
If you want to see more modern works, from the past 100 years or so, then the New Tretyakovka is the place for you. About a 25-minute walk from the historical gallery, you can explore works in socialist realism, avant-garde and more here.f all this doesn't satiate your appetite for Russian art, then the Tretyakov has associated house museums of important artists.
One of the world's finest military museums offers an exhaustive look at the entire history of the Soviet military. Most of the 24-room museum is devoted to the Great Patriotic War (known in the West as World War II).
Among thousands of artifacts, the original Soviet victory flag hoisted over the Reichstag in Berlin in 1945 is here.Cold War relics include weaponry, spy technology and pieces of Gary Powers' U-2 spy plane, which was brought down over the USSR in 1960 and has been on display here ever since. Outside, more than 150 weapons, planes, missiles and battle vehicles are on display A trip to a farmers' market, or "rynok," imparts the sights and smells of the countryside without forcing you to leave the city.
Babushkas sell sour brusniki (cowberry) jam, pickled tomatoes and honey in more variations than you knew existed, while men from the Caucasus hawk spices, honey-drenched nuts and hand-painted teapots nearby. Kiosks serve draft beer poured into plastic two-liter bottles for carting home. Dorogomilovsky is the city's best-known market. Danilovsky has more character. Near the entrance there's a booth selling hot lavash flatbread, which you can watch being baked
Start from the Alexandrovsky Sad (Alexander Garden), a highlight of Moscow center. The garden is famous for its architectural monuments, incredibly beautiful flowerbeds and history. The Eternal Flame in the memory of the fallen heroes in the World War II glows in front of the Kremlin Kutafya Tower. Alexandrovsky Sad is a place that is impossible to miss, if you are going to the Kremlin, a symbol of the Russian State, one of the greatest architectural ensembles in the world, a treasury of amazing relics and monuments of art. The famous Armory Chamber and the Diamond Fund are real treasure houses. The Kremlin is the official President’s residence and remains a gorgeous political landmark. On the way from the Kremlin to the Red Square, you will find the State History Muzeum, with a wonderful collection of artworks, depicting Russian history.
Red Square remains, as it has been for centuries, the heart and soul of Russia. Few places in the world bear the weight of history to the extent that Moscow’s central square does. From the 16th Century St. Basil’s Cathedral – one of the most famous pieces of architecture in the world – to the constructivist pyramid of Lenin’s Mausoleum, Red Square is rich in symbols of Russia’s turbulent and intriguing past.
Right at the Square there is one of the oldest and most remarkable shopping centers in Moscow – the GUM. Just several trading passages in Russia were created over a century ago and successfully operate until nowadays. GUM always was, and remains the greatest country’s store
Not far from the Kremlin and the main street of Moscow – Tverskaya street you will find the Theater Square. The square is situated over the river Neglinka that was enclosed in an underground pipe in 1819. Now it is a green square with two beautiful fountains.
The area owes its name because of t three theaters located there: a world-famous Bolshoi Theatre, Maly Theatre and Russian Academic Youth Theatre (RAMT).
The Bolshoi Theatre is a symbol of Russia for all time. It was awarded this honor due to the major contribution to the history of the Russian performing arts. This history is on-going and today Bolshoi Theatre artists continue to contribute to it many bright pages.
Visit the theatre to watch the magnificent Russian operas and ballets. Despite high ticket’s price, you will never be disappointed; it is a real pearl of the world’s theatrical life.
The TsUM is a luxurious shopping mall with recognizable designer labels and expensive goods is also located at the Theatre Square.Start from Ostozhenka St., and lanes around it, to see the charming old Moscow. Despite that Ostozhenka became one of the most expensive streets in the world, with lots of new houses, it preserved unique examples of the 18 and 19 centuries architecture, which you may find in the numerous bystreets. Moreover, Multimedia Art Museum, one of the most interesting art spots in Moscow is located at Ostozhenka, 16.
Follow the street to the city center and you will see the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour. It is one of the largest Orthodox church in the world. The building is magnificent, but not as old as it looks, it was rebuilt in 2000 (the original was demolished by the order of Stalin). One of the highlights of the Cathedral is the panoramic view from the 40-meter-high observation platform.
At first, the Krimskaya embankment will lead you to the Museon Art Park, that has a unique collection of 700 sculptures.
Nowadays Museon, together with the Gorky Park and Neskuchniy Sad are much reconstructed. The space of the Museon Park of Arts is perfectly landscaped for a comfortable and enjoyable stay.
Follow the River Bank and you will come to the main leisure and cultural spot of nowadays Moscow – the Gorky Park. It opened in 1928. In 2011, Gorky Park underwent a major restructuring and now has a fresh, vibrant appearance. The park’s recently upgraded design makes it one of the most interesting places to spend your leisure time. About 20,000 visitors visit the 109-hectare park each day.
The park features bike rental stations, a comfortable business area with Wi-Fi, an outdoor movie theatre and a greenhouse where you can buy fresh greens such as basil and lettuce, numerous open-air cafes, yoga classes, film festivals in the summer cinema and classical music concerts. To contemplate the sky and the stars, you can go to the observatory and look through the telescope while listening to fascinating stories from astronomers. You can enjoy many sports in the park such as volleyball, handball, football or a peaceful jog around the beautiful surroundings
If you go further by the riverbank you will reach Neskuchniy Sad, a wonderful place in the Moscow center, one of Moscow’s oldest parks, highly renovated for the past few years. Once an area filled with the summer palaces of Moscow’s wealthiest nobles, it is now a charming slice of wildlife with many activities and places of rest.