is Japan's capital and the world's most populous metropolis. It is also one of Japan's 47 prefectures, consisting of 23 central city wards and multiple cities, towns and villages west of the city center. The Izu and Ogasawara Islands are also part of Tokyo.

Prior to 1868, Tokyo was known as Edo.
A small castle town in the 16th century, Edo became Japan's political center in 1603 when Tokugawa Ieyasu established his feudal government there. A few decades later, Edo had grown into one of the world's most populous cities. With the Meiji Restoration of 1868, the emperor and capital moved from Kyoto to Edo, which was renamed Tokyo ("Eastern Capital"). Large parts of Tokyo were destroyed in the Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923 and in the air raids of 1945.

Today, Tokyo offers a seemingly unlimited choice of shopping, entertainment, culture and dining to its visitors. The city's history can be appreciated in districts such as Asakusa and in many excellent museums, historic temples and gardens. Contrary to common perception, Tokyo also offers a number of attractive green spaces in the city center and within relatively short train rides at its outskirts.
sukiji Outer Market (築地場外市場, Tsukiji Jōgai Shijō) is a district adjacent to the site of the former Tsukiji Wholesale Market. It consists of a few blocks of wholseale and retail shops, as well as restaurants crowded along narrow lanes. Here you can find fresh and processed seafood and produce alongside food-related goods such as knives.
 visit to Tsukiji Outer Market is best combined with a fresh sushi breakfast or lunch at one of the local restaurants. The restaurants are typically open from 5:00 in the morning to around noon or early afternoon. Because most of the fish served and sold at Tsukiji Outer Market is delivered directly from Toyosu Market, this is one of the best places in Tokyo to enjoy fresh seafood.
Tsukiji Outer Market is located a short walk from either Tsukiji Shijo Station on the Oedo Subway Line or Tsukiji Station on the Hibiya Subway Line. The closest JR station is Shimbashi, from where you can walk to the market in about 20 minutes.
Take the Oedo Subway Line directly from Shinjuku Station to Tsukiji Shijo Station. The one way trip takes 20 minutes and costs 280 yen.
Koishikawa Korakuen (小石川後楽園, Koishikawa Kōrakuen) is one of Tokyo's oldest and best Japanese gardens. It was built in the early Edo Period (1600-1867) at the Tokyo residence of the Mito branch of the ruling Tokugawa family. Like its namesake in Okayama, the garden was named Korakuen after a poem encouraging a ruler to enjoy pleasure only after achieving happiness for his people. Koishikawa is the district in which the garden is located in.
Like most traditional Japanese gardens, Koishikawa Korakuen attempts to reproduce famous landscapes in miniature, using ponds, stones, trees and manmade hills to replicate both Japanese and Chinese scenery. A network of walking trails leads around to prescribed viewpoints from which visitors are meant to view the garden, which despite the relatively unobtrusive modern backdrop of Tokyo Dome and other buildings in the distance, remains a beautiful natural escape from urban Tokyo
Koishikawa Korakuen is attractive throughout the year, but is especially so in late November and early December during the fall color season. Dozens of maple trees are planted around the garden's three ponds which turn vibrant shades of orange and red. There is also a small, almost hidden grove of ginkgo trees near the southeast corner of the gardens that turn a golden yellow during autumn.

The garden is also nice during the plum season from mid February through March and during the cherry blossom season which usually takes place in late March and early April and features several early blooming weeping cherry trees around the garden's entrance gate. A rice field can also be found toward the rear of the garden.
Koishikawa Korakuen is a 5-10 minute walk from Iidabashi Station along the JR Chuo Line (local trains only) and the Tozai, Yurakucho, Namboku and Oedo Subway Lines, a 5-10 minute walk from JR Suidobashi Station along the JR Chuo Line (local trains only), or a 10 minute walk from Korakuen Station along the Marunouchi and Namboku Subway Lines.
You might call it the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building, but locals refer to it simply as Tochō. Either way, the building is a complex of three different structures, within which most of the government of Tokyo works each day. Designed by the architect Kenzo Tange, Tochō is a staggering 48 stories tall, but at 33 stories there is a split. This gives the building the look of a Gothic cathedral, but there is still no doubt that it is a contemporary structure. It offers an observation platform where you can admire the sprawling district of Shinjuku below you. On a clear day you might even catch a glimpse of Mount Fuji to the west. Access is free.
Within the Chiyoda Ward of Tokyo is a place known as Akihabara, a major shopping and electronics district. While plenty of local residents flock here for all sorts of reasons, it is definitely a top pick for travelers, especially if you’re looking to experience a different side of Japanese culture. Akihabara is known primarily for two things: Tech shops and otaku culture. If you’re fascinated by the tech-savvy Japanese, then Akihabara is the place to see the new and wonderful in technology. As a center of Japanese otaku and anime culture there are dozens of stores specializing in anime, manga and other collectables. There are also several maid cafes, where employees dress as maids and act like different anime characters.
The Emperor of Japan’s primary residence is the extraordinary Imperial Palace in Tokyo. Far more than just a single palace, the area is a sprawling park occupying a staggering amount of land in the heart of the metropolis. Many of the outer gardens are open and free to the public, allowing you to stroll through green parks, admiring the water-filled moat and cherry trees all around you. In April, when cherry blossoms are in full bloom, this becomes one of the best spots in the city for photography. In the past, the Imperial Palace was known as Edo Castle, home to samurai warriors.
It might come as a surprise to you to find an Eiffel Tower inspired structure in the middle of Tokyo. Yet, there it is! The lattice tower painted in bright orange and white is the second tallest structure in all of Japan, and it is one of the most easily recognizable landmarks in the city. Built in just 1958, Tokyo Tower is primarily used for communication and broadcasting. However, it is possible for you to visit one of the two observation decks, both of which can offer a spectacular view of the city below.

The ward of Shibuya in Tokyo is known for its busyness and its abundance of shops, restaurants and nightlife that operates virtually 24/7, 365 days a year. A must-see part of Shibuya is the enormous pedestrian crossing directly in front of the Shibuya Station’s Hachiko Exit. Giant neon screens above display advertisements in bold colors with flashing lights, and the pedestrian crossing is flooded with people at every change of the stoplight. You might recognize the Shibuya area from films or television shows, because it is the perfect way to convey the population density of this enormous city.
When many people think of Japan, what comes to mind is the skyscrapers, the bustling streets and the big shopping areas. That’s why it is such a delight to come across the Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden, an area that belonged to the Naitō family in the Edo period. Today, the gardens are open to the public. There are three beautiful and distinct landscape designs visible in Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden: English garden landscaping, French formal landscaping and traditional Japanese gardening. You can have a picnic, stroll along the paved walkways, admire the large greenhouses or just stop to see the over 20,000 cherry trees that fill the gardens.
