Every Berlin tour is sure to take in the TV Tower with its stunning views, the famous Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag parliament building.

Here, you can buy your tickets for the TV Tower in advance and avoid long waiting times. On visitBerlin.de, it’s also quick and easy to order tickets for a Reichstag tour online.

You can also buy tickets for your city tour here – in just three minutes!
Berlin has it all – sights, attractions and UNESCO World Heritage Sites. To recharge your batteries, it also has places of worship for all the world’s main religions, palaces, parks and gardens. For a quiet moment of reflection visit the spreading green cemeteries.

Berlin’s vantage points offer stunning views of the city – for instance, from the TV Tower, the Panoramapunkt on the 24th and 25th floors of the Kohlhoff Tower at Potsdamer Platz or, for a taste of Berlin’s countryside, the Müggelberg hills.

You can still sense Berlin’s turbulent past at the city’s many memorial sites or along the Berlin Wall trail – after all, this is where world history was made.

From the government quarter in the heart of Berlin to architectural highlights and insiders’ tips for all of Berlin’s districts – we show you the well-known and lesser known sights of Berlin! 
We have put together a compact introduction to the history of Berlin from its founding to this day. At the end of the 19th century, Berlin rose to become a world metropolis. Large German electrical and chemical companies employed thousands of workers that flocked to the city from Silesia, Pomerania and East Prussia. Fascinating examples of the industrial culture can still be seen in Berlin today. Monuments and memorial sites commemorate the burning of books, the Reichspogromnacht, the persecution, death and suffering under Nationalism, but also the resistance to it such as Stauffenberg’s assassination attempt. Right in the heart of the city, near the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag, is where the impressive field of stelae of the Monument to the Murdered Jews of Europe lies. Not far from here you will see the Topography of Terror memorial and remnants of the Berlin Wall. You can explore further traces of the wall along the Berlin Wall Trail – on foot or even by bike.
You will be able to learn even more about Berlin´s history with the help of our city tours and guides. Alte Fritz (Old Fritz) will take you on a journey through time to discover Prussian-German history. The Hop-on Hop-off city tour „Mauer&Kiez“   will guide you in comfort through the trendy district of Prenzlauer Berg, to the Eastside Gallery and the Berlin Wall Memorial. The Brandenburg Gate Museum introduces you to 300 years of history. Discover everyday life in the GDR in the interactive DDR Museum while the Deutsche Spionagemuseum (German Spy Museum), reveals the ambiguous world of the secret services. And the museum pass enables you to visit even more museums at your leisure: you will get three days free entry to over 30 museums in Berlin.

Get recommendations about the best experiences from other visitors. Here you will find the most popular tickets among visitors to Berlin. Our travel service for a stress-free holiday in Berlin: get your tickets for city tours, museums and exhibitions and sights through our convenient online booking system. You will have the ticket that is right for you in a matter of minutes.
From the rise of Prussia and the founding of the German Reich, right through to reunification: time and again it is Berlin which decided the fate of the entire country as well as that of the world. The scars and wastelands in the cityscape still expose traces of the past and tell a story of war and dictatorship, which shaped the 20th century. Here at Checkpoint Charlie is where the tanks of the world powers faced each other during the Cold War.

The remnants of the Berlin Wall bear testimony to the erection of the Wall, the division of the city and the whole country and to suffering and death. Unique and unforgotten: probably the brightest hour in the city’s history, the fall of the Berlin Wall. Today, Berlin stands for freedom, tolerance and diversity of lifestyles. Go on a journey through time and discover the scenes of world history in Berlin.
Discover the places where history is still alive. Important events of history played out here. Stroll through medieval Berlin in the Nikolaiviertel. Admire the beautiful palaces dating from Prussia’s glory days in Charlottenburg and Sanssouci.

Industrial buildings and modern buildings tell a story about the rise of Berlin to a cosmopolitan city and of the golden twenties. The most striking construction of the city’s history is the Berlin Wall which divided the city for over 28 years.
Enjoy our exclusive hotel deal – and get one night for free! Simply decide how long you want to stay:
Book 3 nights and only pay for 2 or book 4 nights and only pay for 3.
This deal always includes breakfast as well as the Berlin Welcome Card for your Berlin city break!
One thing is clear: Berlin has many different faces. 
So you think you’ve discovered Berlin? Perhaps you’ve taken selfies in front of the Brandenburg Gate, been to see Nefertiti and enjoyed the view of the capital from the TV tower.
Then it’s time for a different side of Berlin: its twelve boroughs. Get out and explore the districts and neighbourhoods. Twelve different faces, different stories, undiscovered places and a side of the city you’ve never seen before – but still unmistakably Berlin! 
Reinickendorf? Treptow-Köpenick? Is that Berlin? Of course it is! The twelve boroughs of Berlin are what give the capital city its character.

The glorious variety of all the different boroughs has grown: every neighbourhood, known in Berlin as a Kiez, has been shaped by its own characteristic history – Charlottenburg in the west by the rich industrial pioneers of the 19th century, or Marzahn in the east with its typical East German socialist architecture.

Berlin’s boroughs include old industrial areas that have become thriving cultural centres, as well as sleepy villages, busy markets and arcades, and endless green landscapes, rivers and bathing lakes. But above all it’s the people who live there that make each neighbourhood unique. Just sit in the sun outside the cafés and restaurants and immerse yourself in the world of Berlin’s local neighbourhoods, far from the hectic pace of the metropolis.     

Or for a fascinatingly different take on life in Berlin, expand your horizons by going local in Berlin’s 12 districts and exploring the diverse neighbourhoods. But no matter how varied the city’s neighbourhoods are, they all share that special Berlin feeling and sense of freedom.
Discover the latest exhibitions and highlights in Berlin’s museums. The five museums on the famous Museum Island, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, form the world’s largest museum ensemble. The city has many other top exhibitions to enjoy!
Berlin has around 170 museums – so you’d need to stay quite a while to see them all! We help you narrow down the field and find your favourite museums. Berlin has major exhibitions with art works from across the ages – starting with masterpieces from the classical and modern world on Museum Island, including the legendary bust of Egyptian Queen Nefertiti in the spectacularly restored Neues Museum (New Museum).

The world-famous Museum Island comprises five museums presenting a panorama of art and history, from ancient cultures to nineteenth-century painting. Across the city, you can look forward to a wealth of stunning museum collections, modern and contemporary art, spoken word and cutting-edge theatre, three opera houses and music from classic to experimental.

In the Gemäldegalerie, you can enjoy one of the world’s leading collections of European paintings from the thirteenth to the eighteenth century. For a collection of cutting edge modern and contemporary art, head for the Hamburger Bahnhof museum.

To discover more about Berlin’s history and Germany’s chequered past, visit the GDR Museum, the German Historical Museum, the Märkisches Museum, the Ephraim-Palais or the Jewish Museum.
For a different take on the city’s culture and history, don’t miss the interactive Currywurst Museum, dedicated to the city’s iconic snack. For the sweeter things in life, check out the Sugar Museum in the German Museum of Technology – just one of the city’s many unusual museums with unusual exhibits! For night owls, the Long Night of Museums is a perfect start to an evening in Berlin, with the city’s museums open until midnight. And with the Berlin Welcome Card, you can enjoy great savings on many of the city’s museums – including the world-famous Museum Island!