Churches, palaces, bridges, fountains … Paris is world-famous for the beauty and number of its monuments
As a rule, museums are open from 9 or 10am until 5 or 6pm. Others open later and close at 8 or 9pm. Closing day is most usually Monday or Tuesday, with a few exceptions. Some are even open 7 days a week, such as some of the major monuments which can even be visited as late as 11pm or midnight.
Opening times tend to be longer during high season, sometimes from April to October or from May to September, or simply in July and August.
If there is a trip not to miss out on in Paris, it has to be one along the Seine riverbanks … aboard one of the boats that navigate up and down! As you glide by, you’ll marvel at the city’s finest monuments, including Notre-Dame, the Conciergerie, the Grand Palais and the Eiffel Tower. A prestigious procession of amazing sights that makes it a unique trip.
You might like to take a boat trip for example on one of the famous Bateaux-Mouches or on the elegant Bateau Ivre Maxim’s to see the capital’s iconic sights. Les Vedettes de Paris and Vedettes du Pont Neuf also offer different types of cruises, such as the ‘Paris by night’ tour, which gives you another perspective on the city: with its bridges and monuments lit up, it takes on the appearance of a giant film set. Please note that the Vedettes de Paris, like the Bateaux Parisiens (croisière enchantée), offer cruises for children: great for little fresh-water sailors. Or add some extra sparkle to your romantic getaway with a La Parisienne champagne cruise offered by Vedettes du Pont Neuf! The Bateaux de Paris offers you cruise to disembark at the Eiffel Tower whereas those of La Marina leave from the Orsay Museum.
Although the Seine is the iconic river of the City of Light, there are other navigable waterways in Paris! The Canal Saint-Martin is also a great place for an original and picturesque boat trip. With its locks to pass through and swing bridges, it attracts lovers of an authentic Paris full of charm.  

The Musee d'Orsay, the Philharmonie and the Geode feature for example on the programme of the canal cruise proposed by Paris Canal. The Canauxrama boats offer several types of cruises ranging from a discovery tour of the Paris of Parisians to an exploration of the Marne riverbanks on a day trip!

And to captain one’s own boat, Marin d’eau douce rents out boats for people to cruise along the canal at their own pace! A unique opportunity to discover Paris from along the water.
Paris is widely known as the capital of the grand gastronomic meal, but a new generation of young chefs is hard at work revisiting classic fare and setting refreshing new trends. Encompassing everything from bistro cooking and healthy bowl food to hamburgers, market-fresh snacks and colourful pastries, the Paris culinary scene has something to satisfy all tastes.
Street food used to be known for speed rather than quality, but that is no longer the case. Nowadays, eating street food is a gourmet experience, with dishes made by chefs from organic produce and sold from trendy food trucks.
Sandwiches are the most common element of a meal on the go, and they come with any number of fillings. You can buy a traditional French ‘jambon-beurre’ (ham and butter sandwich) in any Paris boulangerie, but some specialize in making flavour-packed sandwiches with more unusual fillings. Pointe du grouin has Brittany-style sandwiches made by a Michelin-starred chef: the ‘bara touseg’ uses homebaked ficelle (a thin baguette), while the ‘bara bihan’ is made using soft bread rolls. Frenchie to go draws inspiration from American pulled pork and pastrami sandwiches, while the Boulangerie de Thierry Marx, the famous chef who is a judge on the French version of the TV show ‘Top Chef’, sells ‘breadmakis’: sandwiches shaped like maki sushi with fillings such as salade niçoise, pastrami, or prawns, avocado and grapefruit. Bagnard specializes in ‘pan bagnat’ (salade niçoise in a bun), and Ari’s Bagels, of course, makes bagels.
Crêpes are another street food staple in France, and you can find them throughout Paris. Like sandwiches, crêpes are being given a modern twist, and are now made with fresh, organic ingredients. For example, Blün makes crêpes using organic, gluten-free flour and serves them in the form of wraps. At the Mardi Crêpe Club, gluten-free crêpes are made with a patented utensil, and customers can choose from up to 50 fillings sourced from the finest producers. Krügen offers the full gamut of Brittany-style crêpes: whole-wheat, kouign (a kind of pancake), buckwheat and galette saucisse (a crêpe wrapped around a sausage). At Framboise (five branches in Paris), the crêpes are 100% organic, with fillings made from fresh ingredients. They have sweet crêpes and pancakes as well as platters of tapas-style, bite-size stuffed pancakes and dosas (Indian rice and lentil pancakes).
Natural successors to the department stores, the numerous shopping centres roll out their dozens of galleries, lined with bright and appealing shop windows, in all four corners of Paris. Above or below ground, these shopping malls often add to the dynamic of a neighbourhood.

Gigantic, high-tech or “village-style”, each one has everything you need, grouping together all kinds of services around the shopping experience (food halls, petrol, repairs, travel agents…). Miles of malls to treat yourselves !
For example, Front de mode is an environmentally-friendly concept store with clothing, accessories, leatherwear, cosmetics and interior decor objects for a chic and sustainable future. Step through the door of this pretty boutique in the Haut-Marais and treat yourself to eco-friendly products!

With products stamped ‘Go For Good’, the famous Parisian department store Galeries Lafayette Paris Haussmann values fashion items and accessories respecting the environment, social development and support for French produced products. You’ll find them more or less everywhere in the store, notably on the stands of brands Saint James, Le Slip Français, Fjällraven, Agnès b. and Claudie Pierlot.

The boutique Sézane offers prototypes from its brand and items from previous collections, whose profits are given to the programme ‘Demain’, supporting educational and equal opportunities initiatives.

For small budgets, many consignment shops exist in the capital, as well as thrift stores, and give a second life to clothes, at great prices. Some, like Chercheminippes, favour recent collections.

The biggest names in fashion and French luxury luggage favour the know-how of local craftsmen. The quality of the materials used and the care taken in the fabrication are the hallmark of French luxury throughout the world. Discover or rediscover top French luxury brands such as Chanel, Hermès, Louis Vuitton and Lancel in the department stores or directly in their boutiques.

And with jewellery made in Or du Monde, let yourself be tempted by creations consisting only of materials from fair trade!
Treat your taste buds during your stay in Paris, and extend your trip by taking local and artisanal products back home with you! The choice of French products is vast: chocolate, honey, jam, olive oil, tea, wine, champagne ... Shop at La boutique des Pruneaux, HéDONIE, Espace Sensoriel Dans le Noir ?, Caves de Taillevent, Le Chocolat Alain Ducasse, Dilettantes, Kusmi Tea and many other boutiques to take a bit of French gastronomy home in your luggage!
Since 2012, MIF (Made in France) Expo has become the annual gathering place for professionals and consumers wishing to buy products made in France. Textiles, leather goods, cosmetics, food ... Some 500 exhibitors from all sectors of activity await you in Paris at the end of the year. Discover the know-how and products of companies that have opted for local manufacturing processes!