Sample seven Czech premium beers, make friends and learn to examine and appreciate beer like a true beer connoisseur and take a trip through the glorious history of beer making in Bohemia.
This is a social, fun event where you may try lots of beer and are likely to make some new friends. At the same time groups are small, usually fit on one table and the experience is sophisticated and educational.
One of our expert beer masters will give you an entertaining, colorful introduction into the world of beer – particularly beer in Bohemia, the place where Pilsener was invented.  You will try plenty of beer and our guide will teach you how connoisseurs taste beer and point out the subtle differences of taste, aroma and aesthetics.
See the world’s largest medieval castle and Hradcany, Prague’s famous castle district. Enjoy the most spectacular Romanesque, Gothic and Baroque architecture the city has to offer. When: Every da
Unimaginable suffering, unspeakable courage, crushed dreams and glimmers of hope: Prague tossed and turned in the 20th century’s storms whipped up by the great powers surrounding it. This tour sheds
Join us on our day trip to this incredible UNESCO-World-Heritage-listed town and discover why Kutná Hora is rated among the most amazing sites in Europe. Visit the chapel decorated with nothing but 
A sleepy countryside town today, Terezín epitomizes one of history’s darkest chapters. 140,000 people were deported here by the Nazis when it served them as a GESTAPO prison, ghetto and concentration
The Home of PilsnerSample seven Czech premium beers, make friends and learn to examine and appreciate beer like a true beer connoisseur and take a trip through the glorious history of beer making in
Let our Beer Master take you to three of Prague’s most famous historical breweries. Indulge in an array of Bohemia's finest beers. Learn about the history and techniques of brewing in Bohemia, the 
With the world-famous Prague Pub Crawl, the biggest in Europe, you are in for the wildest night of your life. The unbelievable Power Hour will get you in the mood to party at three of Prague’s 
With the world-famous Prague Pub Crawl, the biggest in Europe, you are in for the wildest night of your life. The unbelievable unlimited drinks will get you in the mood to party at three
This social, active experience is a totally unique way to explore Prague – perfect for friends, families, parties, kids, and colleagues. The route leads past many of Prague most stunning views and
Daily in English at 10:30 and 14:30 (Except Dec. 23,24,25 & 31st evening + Jan 1st morning, ) This country has a dark period in its history: Communism was full of paranoia
Thirty years ago, Prague was a mystery to travelers in Europe; now, however, it is one of the most popular destinations on the continent, drawing about 4 million visitors each year. Prague offers a compact city center, a fascinating centuries-long history with splendid examples of Romanesque, Gothic, Baroque, Renaissance and Art Nouveau architecture
The Municipal House is a beautifully ornate building right next to the Pachovsky Palace and the Powder Tower in the old part of town. Bohemian Kings used to rule the countryside from this art nouveau classic where operas and plays are now held. The building has a dramatic entrance with a concave mural depicting classic works of art. Inside, you’ll find sculptures from some of the most renowned artists of past centuries, and the building links right up to Prague’s ancient city gate making for a dramatic picture
Petrin Hill looms over the ancient city of Prague across the river from old town where you’ll find meandering paths that are perfect for an afternoon stroll. They’ll take you up the hill where you can enjoy sweeping views of old town, a mini Eiffel Tower, an astronomical observatory, a centuries-old brewery and the Strahov Monastery which houses an ornate library. Kick off your visit to Prague with a walk up Petrin Hill to get the lay of the land. Climb the 299 steps of the 60-meter (200-foot) Petrin Tower, modeled after France’s iconic landmark, to get a bird’s eye view of the winding streets below.
You don’t necessarily think of exotic animals when you think of this ancient city, but Prague has one of the best zoos in all of Europe. You’ll find this sprawling expanse of zoo animals right on the banks of the river Vitava next to the Troja Castle. Ranked the fifth best zoo in the world, you can get up close and personal with rare animals like the Galapagos Giant Tortoise that lives an impressive 100 years. You’ll also find elephants, rhinos and giraffes throughout the expansive grounds.
The Spanish Synagogue sits right in the heart of old town in the Jewish Quarter. It was built back in 1868, is Prague’s first Jewish House of Worship and is widely regarded as the most beautiful synagogue in all of Europe. This Moorish-style building features stunning stained glass windows, stylized Islamic motifs handpainted onto the walls and ornate gold tilework. The most breathtaking feature is the interior of the massive central dome. Galleries crown the dome so there is plenty to explore in one of Prague’s most prized buildings
It took 600 years to build this magnificent cathedral and it is one of the most richly endowed churches in Europe. You’ll find this towering structure within the walls of Prague Castle at the top of a steep walk paved with centuries-old stones. St Vitus Cathedral still serves as the seat of the Archbishop of Prague. Inside, you’ll see the baroque silver tomb of St John of Nepomuck as well as stunning art nouveau stained glass, a 14th-century mosaic of the Last Judgement and the tombs of Saint Wenceslas and Charles IV. Insider tip — instead of going right into the castle, take a stroll left of the main gate through a garden with sweeping views of the city. Pass a cherub fountain and find stairs to your right. Ascend the stairs through the castle wall for the most breathtaking reveal of the church
One of the original gates into Old Town Prague, this tower was first built in the 11th century and rebuilt in the 15th century. During the 17th century, the tower was used for storing gunpowder, which is where it gets its name. The royal route, the coronation route of the Bohemian kings, started at the tower, through Old Town, across the Charles Bridge and up to Prague Castle and St. Vitus Cathedral where the kings were crowned.

Powder Tower is connected by a covered bridge to what used to be the palace of King Vladislav II who rebuilt the tower in 1475. The former palace is now the Municipal House and remains connected to the tower. Inside the tower is a spiral staircase with 186 steps leading up to the gallery where visitors can get great view of Old Town.
Prague is known for its centuries-long span of architectural styles, with the end of the 20th century exemplified by the deconstructivist building Dancing House, created by Czech architect Valdo Milunic and Canadian Frank Gehry. This remarkable structure contains both dynamic and static elements, and resembles a female dancer swaying in the arms of her male partner, the Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers of the architectural world. Located on the bank of the Vltava River and Resslova Street, Dancing House is a private office building except for a restaurant on the 7th floor, the Celeste, which is open to the public.

Dancing House stands in strict contrast to the classical architecture surrounding it, which includes buildings in Art Nouveau, Neo-Gothic and Neo-Baroque styles. Its ultra modern design created public outcries and controversy during its construction; years later, Prague is proud to show off its splendid Dancing House
In Josefov, Prague’s former Jewish Quarter, is the oldest active synagogue in Europe, the Old-New Synagogue. Legend tells that stones from the Second Temple in Jerusalem were brought to Prague by angels to build the walls of the synagogue. Prague’s first gothic building, the Old-New Synagogue was completed in 1270 and has held divine services ever since, except for the Nazi occupation of 1942-45. The synagogue became the heart of the Jewish Quarter.

The Old-New Synagogue is also the home of Prague’s Golem, or so legend has it. In the 16th century, Rabbi Jehud Löwa created the golem from clay and animated it with breath and a parchment bearing instructions placed in its mouth. When the Golem went mad and became aggressive, the Rabbi returned it to clay, stating that when hard times for Jewish people came again, the Golem could be re-awakened.
The Church of Our Lady before Tyn graces the Old Town Square. Among the most well-known attractions in Prague, the church’s Gothic towers soar 80 meters (260 ft) into the sky and can be seen from all parts of the city. Like many other Prague churches, the site’s original building was an 11th century Romanesque church built for foreign merchants who came to Tyn Courtyard for trade. The present church was constructed in the 14th century, although the roof, towers and gables came years later. Inside, Tyn Church holds many works of art in Gothic, Baroque and Renaissance styles. Our Lady before Tyn’s architects were Petr Parler and Matthias of Arras, who created many of Prague’s Gothic buildings.
On the other end of Charles Bridge from Old Town Square lies the Malá Strana or Lesser Town district. Baroque architecture is the rule in Malá Strana, although its history dates back to 1257 when it was founded as a royal town. The Baroque St. Nicholas Church and the extensive Wallenstein Palace dominate the area.

The district hosts palaces, churches, squares, parks, gardens and many other attractions. Surrounding Lesser Town Square are pubs, shops, restaurants and international embassies, housed in grand old Baroque buildings. Towering over Malá Strana is Prague Castle, which can be reached by a hike up picturesque Nerudova Street. Houses on the street boast heraldic emblems and beasts such as the White Swan, the Golden Horseshoe and the Red Eagle. Travelers longing for a quiet walk in a park should head for Vojan Park or Petrin Hill.