Seoul is one of the most exciting mega cities in Asia, and a major travel destination in the coming years due to the Winter Olympics 2018. Head to Seoul and you’ll find a mix of traditional and modern, with countless attractions and sites to explore for any taste! Here are the top 20 must-visit attractions in Seoul!
You might be surprised that Seoul has not only one, but five main palaces. Gyeongbokgung is the largest and most important of them all. Often compared to the Forbidden City in Beijing, Gyeongbokgung is a large palace complex that also houses the National Folk Museum of Korea. If you wear a traditional hanbok dress, which you can rent around town, you get free admission!
This lovely square is located in front of Gwanghwamun Gate, the main gate of Gyeongbokgung Palace. The square features a large statue of King Sejong The Great, the inventor of Korea’s Hangul alphabet, as well as statues of some of his other inventions.
In between Gyeongbokgung and Changdeokgung lies a picturesque village featuring over 400 traditional Korean houses, called hanok. The village features small cafes, restaurants, and shops offering handmade crafts and souvenirs. You can also find a couple of traditional teahouses in this area.
Amid the celebrity-owned apartments on the leafy southern slope of Namsan is Korea's premier art gallery. Beautifully designed and laid-out, it balances modern and contemporary art with traditional Korean art across
One of Seoul's five grand palaces built during the Joseon dynasty, Deoksugung (meaning Palace of Virtuous Longevity) is the only one you can visit in the evening and see the buildings illuminated. It first served as
This huge museum documents the history of the Korean War (1950–53) using multimedia exhibits and black-and-white documentary footage, along with artefacts like weapons, uniforms, and maps. Outside, a sombre memorial
Located in the heart of ritzy Gangnam, the shrines and halls of the Buddhist temple Bongeun-sa, with its tree-filled hillside location, stand in direct juxtaposition to its corporate high-rise surrounds. Founded in
Designed by the late Zaha Hadid, this neofuturistic cultural complex was commissioned to replace the Dongdaemun Stadium, built during Japanese rule in the 1920s. Dubbed the 'largest three-dimensional atypical struc
This 6.3km park, named for the former Gyeongui Line (on which it was built), is a narrow, long green space that runs along the discarded railroad tracks above Gajwa Station to Hyochang Park station. Within are nooks
A score of centuries-old stone sentinels stand guard on the hillside at this terrific museum overlooking Seongbuk-dong. A road winds through sculpted gardens revealing collections of various stone figures as you go
Built in 1908, this former prison is a potent symbol of Korean suffering at the hands of Japan during colonial occupation in the early 20th century. However, it was also used by Korea's various postwar dictators up 
You need to apply several days in advance via a reservation page on the website to visit this museum, but you absolutely should to admire the fabulous collection of Joseon dynasty chests, bookcases, chairs and
Rising almost 500 meters above the city, this communications and observation tower provides dramatic views of the city from its perch on the side of Mount Namsan. A cable car whisks you up the side of the mountain to the base of the tower. From here, you can go up in the tower and visit any one of four observation decks, one of which is a rotating restaurant.

There are two restaurants at the tower and, of course, several gift shops. There's even a digital observatory, where people with height issues can experience a live, 360-degree view through the use of 32 LED screens and cameras mounted at the tower's top.

The views from the tower are great, but so are the views of the tower from most parts of the city. Computer-controlled LED lighting on the exterior of the tower provides a digital, visual cultural experience of Seoul with themed lighting presentations.
For a taste of Korean traditional culture and architecture, head over to the Bukchon Hanok Village. This preserved area of several ancient neighborhoods gives you a feel for what it was like to live in Korea 600 years ago. It's right in central Seoul, in the area between the Gyeongbokgung Palace and the Changdeokgung Palace.

The neighborhoods feature hanoks or traditional Korean houses. It's a unique place, as it's a historic area, very popular with tourists, but it's also a real neighborhood because the houses are all occupied. Some of the hanoks are now guesthouses and bed-and-breakfasts, and a few are museums and can be toured. Others are cultural centers showcasing traditional crafts and other historic aspects of Korean life.

This is a fun place to spend an afternoon and really gives visitors the feeling of being in ancient Korea due to the historic architecture and narrow streets
This must-see attraction in Seoul showcases the incredible history and artwork of Korea and the Korean people. The museum, one of the largest in Asia, is in the city's Yongsan District (close to Itaewon). It focuses on archeology, history, and art and includes a vast collection of works and objects going back more than a million years. There are ancient and prehistoric artifacts, sculpture, paintings, and other artwork along with a large collection of objects and antiques.

Before or after your museum visit, head down the street to Yongsan Family Park, a nice outdoor space to relax. Another important museum, The War Memorial of Korea, is also close by.
One of the newest attractions in Seoul is the Lotte World Tower skyscraper. It's 500 meters above the ground and one of the world's tallest (currently fifth) buildings. There are several indoor and outdoor observation areas (called Seoul Sky) at the top on the 123rd floor. Views are spectacular both during the day and at night, and you can see 360-degrees around the city.

On the 118th floor, there's the Sky Deck with the world's highest glass floor. Like magic, the floor changes from opaque to clear, terrifying unsuspecting visitors. Even getting to the top is fun, and the journey is done via super fast, double-decker elevators, with windows on one side and LED screens on the other three and the ceiling.

Inside the tower are offices, luxury residences, and a hotel. There's also an aquarium and a large shopping mall. The tower is home to a concert hall and a state-of-the-art, 21-screen MoviePlex
First built in 1395, Gyeongbokgung Palace is the largest of Seoul's five grand palaces built during the powerful Joseon dynasty. Destroyed and rebuilt several times over the centuries, it was restored to its original glory after the Second World War and totally restored in the 1990s.

Within the palace grounds, you can also find the National Palace Museum of Korea and the National Folk Museum, and both are worth a visit. The palace museum is especially fascinating as it presents items from the palaces of the Joseon Dynasty. This includes priceless antiques and artwork, as well as everyday items for cooking, cleaning, and daily life. The National Folk Museum focuses on items from daily life, as well as clothing and dioramas, to tell the story of the Korean people since prehistoric times.