The Miniatures Museum contains first-rate artwork produced by renowned artists from around the world. World-class in scale, the museum contains approximately 200 hundred assembled and ornamented works of art, including delightfully 
Taipei's version of New York City's Central Park, this park is 26 hectares, the size of three major league baseball fields. Take a walk around the ecological pond, enjoy a meal
The monument to former military and political leader Chiang Kai-shek is a beautiful building set in a quiet central city park. Most tourists come to see the changing of the guard which happens on the hour, from 9am to 5pm.
Dr. Sun Yat-sen was the former leader of the KMT party and the first president of the Republic of China, which we also know as Taiwan. The park around the memorial hall is a nice place to relax in the afternoon while the hall itself houses some of Sun Yat-sen’s personal items.
Founded in 1738 by Han immigrants from Fujian, this temple has served as a municipal, guild and self-defence centre, as well as a house of worship. These days it is one of the city's top religious sites, and a prime venue for exploring both Taiwan's vibrant folk faith and its unique temple arts and architecture. The temple can get very congested with tourists; try coming early in the morning (before 8am) or late in the evening (after 8pm) to avoid the crush.
Longshan is dedicated to the bodhisattva of mercy, Guanyin, though in true Taiwanese style there are over 100 other gods and goddesses worshipped in the rear and side halls. Matsu, goddess of the sea, is enshrined in the back centre; Wenchang Dijun, the god of literature, to the far right (come during exam period to
see how important he is); red-faced Guan Gong, the god of war and patron of police and gangsters, is enshrined to the far left; and in front of that is the Old Man Under the Moon, known as the Matchmaker or the Chinese Cupid.
As with most temples in Taiwan, Longshan has been rebuilt multiple times after destruction by earthquakes, typhoons and even bombing in the last days of WWII. The present structure (with elements from the masterful 1920s and post-WWII reconstructions) doesn't have the same flow and elegance as Bao'an Temple, but it is still an impressive 
Check out the two-of-a-kind bronze pillars outside the front hall and the incense holders outside the main hall. The handles depict a common temple motif: The Fool Holding up the Sky. The western-style appearance of the 'fools' is no coincidence. They are said to represent the Dutch (or sometimes Dutch slaves), who occupied Taiwan in the 17th century.

Taipei is Taiwan's largest city as well as its economic, political, and cultural center. It is a modern cosmopolitan metropolis with a lively and diversified face, filled with exuberance.

From the world's tallest building(2004-2010) to the biggest collection of Chinese art, Taipei invites you into a world of fascinating contrasts - a mix of the modern and traditional, with a generous dash of energy and friendly smiles to make this one of your most memorable trips to Asia.

The cultural kaleidoscope of Taiwan's capital city pulses wherever you go. Incense - veiled temples dating back to dynastic times blend seamlessly with a neon street life of a decidedly more modern era. Taipei has dozens of world - class restaurants where gourmets can sample the best regional Chinese cuisine; and for the gourmand, there are plenty of night markets serving up scrumptious evening snacks in an environment of chaotic excitement and fun.

The polarities of Taipei are vividly present as well in the joining of the urban and natural. Just a few minutes from the heart of the city you can soak away the cares of the world in mineral - rich hot springs nestled in the lush mountain foothills ringing the Taipei Basin. And throughout the city there are plenty of trails, parks and other oases of tranquility to lift and invigorate your spirits.Whether you're just stopping over en route to another Asian destination, or planning a longer stay, Taipei is a many-faceted treasure that will call you back again and again.
Yangmingshan National Park is one of the nine national parks in Taiwan, located between Taipei and New Taipei City. The districts that house parts of the park grounds include Taipei's Beitou and Shilin Districts; and New Taipei's Wanli, Jinshan and Sanzhi Districts. The National Park is famous for its cherry blossoms, hot springs, sulfur deposits, fumaroles, venomous snakes, and hiking trails, including Taiwan's talles
Taiwan’s bustling, vivacious, food-loving capital has something for everyone. Whether you want to explore Taipei’s history, arts, fantastic temples, nature, or perhaps you just want to suntan on one of the best beaches around Taipei or eat your heart out at Taipei’s famed night markets, this city’s got you covered.

Having called Taipei home for over a decade, there’s no way I could make this a short article. Choosing only 10 or 15 things to do in Taipei simply would not do this enchanting, multi-faceted metropolis justice; this article is so long that it could practically be published as a guidebook, and I had to write an equally long article to cover the best day trips from Taipei!

If you’re planning your Taipei trip, also be sure to consult my personal recommendations for the best hostels, hotels, and areas to stay in Taipei.
Once the world’s tallest building (2004-2010), Taipei 101 is Taiwan’s most iconic structure and is shaped like a stalk of bamboo. It retains the titles for tallest green building and having the world’s highest Starbucks
The best way to experience Taipei 101 is to ride the world’s fastest elevator up to the observation deck on the 89th to 91st floors. Save money when you order your entrance tickets online or skip the long lines with this Taipei 101 priority pass.Make sure to check out the 720-ton stabilizer ball hanging in the center, which prevents Taipei from falling during earthquakes. Also check out the videos playing around it showing the gigantic ball swinging during one big earthquake!
Probably the second most recognizable building in Taipei is the Chiang Kai-Shek Memorial Hall (捷運中正紀念堂). The imposing blue and white structure was built in 1980 to honor the former dictator and contains a small museum about CKS.
Often described as the most important museum in the Chinese-speaking world, the National Palace Museum (國立故宮博物院) houses nearly 700,000 artifacts (about 3000 can be displayed at any given time) spanning 8000 years of Chinese history.The museum’s origins are tied to the Palace Museum in the Forbidden City of Beijing, from where many of the artifacts were carried across China and to Taiwan in the final years of the Chinese Civil War.

Some of the most famous pieces include a piece of jade shaped like cabbage and a meat-shaped stone. We always find the Chinese scrolls particularly impressive. There is also a small kids’ section and regular rotating exhibits. Save time at the entrance gates by booking your ticket in advance online. Entrance to the National Palace Museum is also covered by the Taipei Unlimited Fun Pass.
In 2015, a the Southern Branch of the National Palace Museum was erected in Chiayi County to display more of the artifacts. You can gain entry to both museums for the price of one with the same online deal mentioned above (essentially two museums for the price of one).
Access: Access: Take bus R30 from Shilin MRT station. Open 8:30-6:30 (to 9:00 on Fridays and Saturdays), admission NT350, National Palace and Shung Ye Museum combined ticket NT400
First developed by the Japanese during the Japanese colonial occupation of Taiwan (1895-1945), the hot spring village around Xinbeitou MRT in Beitou district, usually called Beitou Hot Spring (北投溫泉) is Taipei City’s only hot spring resort (OK, there’s one more secret one, see #17 below). Here’s my detailed guide to Beitou Hot Spring.

Visiting Beitou is one of my favorite things to do in Taipei, and you can easily spend a half day there. Top sights & activities include the Beitou Hot Spring Museum, Beitou Geothermal Valley (Hell Valley), soaking in a historic Japanese bathhouse or a private hot spring room, and eating hot spring ramen.Some top hot spring choices include a private bathhouse or public spring at Gaia Hotel, or Spring City Resort