Venice’s historic buildings are crisscrossed by hundreds of canals. This gives the city a romantic feel that has attracted tourists for hundreds of years. Until the 20th century this was not an issue, as only the wealthy could afford to travel, but now mass-market tourism is straining the city’s resources. Overcrowded walkways, congested canals and long queues to visitor attractions are the new normal.

Venice (or Venezia in Italian) is built on more than 100 small islands. The canals and surrounding lagoon are tidal and salty and form part of a natural marsh flood plain. The city grew because of its strategic location as a trading point between East and West. Its architecture reflects the affluence and diverse origins of its settlers. They accumulated huge wealth through trading in precious metals, gemstones, glass and silk.

Venice suffers from a major environmental issue. The land is boggy and the city is slowly sinking. The buildings don't have proper foundations and are gradually subsiding into the waters of the lagoon.

The impact of tourism and climate-change on the city are clearly visible. Walking routes around the city can change depending on the extent of the flooding. You should take an up-to-date guide book with you
Venice is a city of immense beauty and historical significance, but it is also unique and not like any other city in Italy. As the capital of the Veneto Region of Northern Italy, Venice actually lies on 117 small islands that are connected by a series of bridges and separated by a network of canals. With a population of around 250,000, Venice is not one of the largest cities in Veneto, but it is one of the most visited tourist destinations in the country.

During the Middle Ages and the Italian Renaissance, Venice was an extremely powerful stronghold and served as a major financial and military centre. Furthermore, it was a place that saw great cultural and artistic development and was renowned worldwide.
Easily the most renowned and famous building in Venice, St. Mark’s Basilica is a sublime piece of architecture that has stood the test of time since its creation in 1092 and remains one of the most important religious buildings in Northern Italy.very aspect of this church is fantastic – From the ornate detail, sculptures and artwork of the front facade, to the beautifully painted frescos and Byzantine works of art on the inside of the domed ceiling.

Located in the Piazza San Marco, this basilica is easily accessible from the grand canal and is one of the best-known surviving examples of Italian Byzantine architecture.
Whilst St. Mark’s Basilica is the most famous building in Venice, St Mark’s Square is the most famous piazza.

Located on the grand canal, opposite the island of San Giorgio Maggiore, this square holds huge importance in Venice and is a truly spectacular place to visit.Surrounding the Piazza is a series of ornate buildings with arched walkways that frame it perfectly. Furthermore, several important buildings are located on the square including St Mark’s Campanile, St Mark’s Basilica, Doge’s Palace and Torre dell’Orologio.

This square really is the perfect place to start your tour of Venice and tick off some of its most impressive sights.
Venice has literally hundreds of canals that connect the various islands that make up the city – the largest of which is the Canale Grande.This monumental canal is more like a river and it passes from one side of Venice to the other and snakes through the centre in a large S bend shape.

Over 170 buildings dating from as early as the 13th century line the banks of the canal and it has served as an important waterway in the city for hundreds of years. Only four bridges span the grand canal as generally people and tourists travel along the canal, not over it.

Consider walking along sections of the canal, admiring the buildings that line it, and watching the busy water traffic of Venice
As one of the bridges that spans the impressive Grand Canal, the Ponte di Rialto is undoubtedly the most famous and iconic.

Connecting the San Marco and San Polo districts of Venice, the bridge is an important pedestrian thoroughfare, but also a hugely popular tourist attraction.Originally a wooden bridge, this culmination stood for hundreds of years until it collapsed in 1524. After this incident, an ornate stone bridge was built that still stands today.

The detail and design of the bridge is simply beautiful and its symmetry perfectly frames the grand canal.

Furthermore, the is also a series of shops on the bridge that sell a range of wares from souvenirs to jewellery.
Located opposite the Ponte dell’Accademia on the Grande Canal, this museum hosts a fine collection of pre-19th century art and features works by artists such as Bellini, Canaletto and Titian.

The building that the gallery is housed was formerly a convent an was converted to the museum in the mid to late 1700’s.For those who love Renaissance art and iconic masterpieces, this gallery delivers. Possibly its best known piece is the Vitruvian Man by Da Vinci which shows the ideal proportions of man.

Other notable works include the Resurrection by Tintoretto, Virgin and the Child by Titian, and the Battle of Lepanto by Veronese.
St. Mark’s Square is the heart of Venice. From here you can easily visit most of the other main sites. The best things to do here? Take a 360° panorama photo, feed (or run through) the pigeons, and go people watching.
The Campanile is the bell tower that dominates the skyline of Venice. The only way to the top is by elevator. From the top, your reward is one of the best views of the city.
Spanning the Grand Canal, the Ponte di Rialto is Venice’s most popular bridge. From the top of the bridge, enjoy another fantastic, iconic view of this city. See it at sunrise, see it at sunset, join the crowds of tourists in the middle of the day. Watching the gondolas, vaporettos, and ferries travel up and down the Grand Canal from this spot is mesmerizing.

Expect to share this space with a lot of other travelers. Find a spot, take lots of selfie photos, and smile because you are in Venice!
